---
navigation: 
  sidebarTitle: Karagäz Sandbox
  title: Introduction
hideBreadcrumb: true
hideToc: true
---

# Karagäz Sandbox

::hint{variant='destructive'}
Keep in mind that Karagöz is still in active development and things might change in the near future.
Use in production at your own risk. 
::

<br>

::hint{variant='destructive'}
Feedback and improvement ideas are welcome by opening issues and discussions in the <a href="https://github.
com/frontendat/karagoz" target="_blank">GitHub repo</a>. 

Contributions to the code will be accepted and appreciated as well, once a proper process has been defined.
::

The idea behind Karagöz Sandbox is to provide a simple UI to work with 
<a class="external" href="https://webcontainers.io/" target="_blank">WebContainers</a>.

If you're not familiar with WebContainers, please check out 
<a class="external" href="https://webcontainer-tutorial.pages.dev/" target="_blank">this tutorial</a>.

In short, it is a browser-based runtime developed by StackBlitz. Once you boot a WebContainer in the browser, you 
can mount a collection of files within it and spawn processes such as installing dependencies and starting a 
development server using shell or your favorite package manager(NPM, PNPM and Yarn come preinstalled).

With Karagöz Sandbox on top of that, you will get something like the following:

::hint
Due to limitations set in the design of the WebContainer API, **only one** WebContainer instance can be running at a 
time. 
Because of that, starting one of the demos on one of the documentation pages will terminate any previously running demos.
::

::demo-runner
:sandbox-demo-full
::

Karagöz Sandbox stands on the shoulders of giants to provide as simple, intuitive UI.

Aside from WebContainers, it uses 
<a class="external" href="https://codemirror.net/" target="_blank">CodeMirror</a> for code editing and
<a class="external" href="https://xtermjs.org/" target="_blank">Xterm.js</a> to interact with the terminal and display the output of running processes.