# Props and Events


## Props

Aside from the panel models, `KrgzSandbox` accepts some flags to adjust the visibility of some features:

### `booting`

When passed as true, shows a loading indicator. It is important to pass it to avoid rendering panels before the WebContainer is ready.

### `hideExplorer`

When passed as true, hides file explorer (e.g. to only show a specific set of editor tabs).

### `hideFullScreenToggle`

When passed as true, hides the fullscreen toggle.

### `hideSolveButton`

When passed as true, hides the solve button if it is not needed.

### `hideThemeToggle`

When passed as true, hides the dark/light theme toggle.

### `multiPanelFrom`

Forces only 1 panel to be shown at a time depending on container width:
* **Available values:** <br> `none`, `xs`, `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl`, `2xl`, `3xl`, `4xl`, `5xl`, `6xl`, `7xl`
* The value determines the minimum container width to allow showing multiple panels, for that
  :external-link{href='https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-container-queries' content='tailwindcss-container-queries'} 
  is used.
* The additional value `none` enforces only 1 panel regardless of container width.
* If no value or `undefined` is provided, then showing multiple panels is always allowed.
* In single-panel mode the first panel from `shown-panels` is initially shown. After that, the latest toggled panel 
  is shown.

## Events

Only one event es emitted by `KrgzSandbox`.

### `solve`

Emitted when the solve button is clicked (if not hidden).

There is no specific way to handle this event, but usually it involves mounting new files or remounting existing 
files in the WebContainer to show the desired result.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const onSolveClick = async () => {
  sandbox.container.value?.mount({
    public: {
      directory: {
        "about.html": {
          file: {
            contents: "..."
          }
        },
        "index.html": {
          file: {
            contents: "..."
          }
        }
      }
    }
  })
}
</script>

<template>
  <KrgzSandbox
    :booting="isBooting"
    @solve="onSolveClick()"
  ></KrgzSandbox>
</template>
```

In the following example, clicking the solve button loads a remote `FileSystemTree` from a server endpoint and 
mounts it in the WebContainer, changing `index.html` by adding a top navigation bar and creating and additional page 
`about.html`.

[Full example code](https://github.com/frontendat/karagoz/blob/main/apps/docs/components/content/sandbox/demo/SandboxDemoFull.vue)

::demo-runner
:sandbox-demo-full
::