# Supplying Options

The sandbox returned by `useSandbox` exposes a method `setOption` which allows setting options for a specific aspect 
of the sandbox by providing a key and the value or callback to calculate the new value from the old value. For example:

```ts
sandbox.setOption('editor', { suppressClose: true })
// or
sandbox.setOption('editor', old => ({ ...old, suppressClose: true }))
```

::hint
While we will into more depth on some options in this page, the complete documentation of the options can be found in 
the API docs (see [SandboxOptions](/sandbox/api-reference/type-aliases/sandboxoptions)).
::

## Editor Options

**Key: `editor`** 

The editor options include:
1. `suppressClose`: when true, prevents the "close" icon from being shown for editor tabs. This behavior can be 
   overridden for individual editor tabs.
2. `theme`: specifies the themes used to style the CodeMirror editors. It takes 2 callbacks for light and dark themes. 

## Explorer Options

**Key: `explorer`**

The explorer options are 3 sets of path matchers. Here they are along with their default values:
```ts
sandbox.setOption('explorer', {
  /* determine whether an entity (directory or file) should be hidden in the file explorer. */
  hidden: ['./node_modules/*'],
  /* determine whether an entity should be marked as readonly in the file explorer and editor tabs (lock icon). */
  readonly: [
    '*/node_modules',
    '*/package-lock.json',
    '*/pnpm-lock.yaml',
    '*/yarn.lock',
  ],
  /* determine whether changing an entity should trigger the re-installation of dependencies and re-bootstrapping. */
  reinstall: ['./package.json'],
})
```

## Preview Options

**Key: `preview`**

A single option `suppressAddressBar` to determine whether to render the address bar above the preview frame.

## Process Options

**Key: `process`**

Contain 3 options: `packageManager`, `commands` and `starters`.

`packageManager` sets the package manager to be used by the commands. Only relevant when `commands` and `starters` 
use the defaults. One of `npm`, `pnpm` and `yarn`.

The package manager must be set before `sandbox.bootstrap()` is called.

`commands` is an object with 3 keys: `install`, `devServer` and `terminal` which hold the text shell commands to run 
for default processes. The `install` and `devServer` are automatically adjusted when the `packageManager` option is 
changed.

Similarly, `starters` contains the same 3 keys: `install`, `devServer` and `terminal`, but in this case they are 
callbacks to start their respective processes. By default, they use their counterparts in `commands`. Which also 
means that when one of the keys of `starters` is set, its counterpart in `commands` is ignored.

```ts
sandbox.setOption('process', (old) => ({
  packageManager: 'pnpm', // so commands.install = "pnpm install" and commands.devServer = "pnpm start" 
  commands: {
    ...old.commands,
    devServer: 'pnpm dev', // overriding devServer command default
  },
  starters: {
    ...old.starters,
    terminal: () => { /* new terminal process logic */ }
  },
}))
```

## Terminal Options

**Key: `terminal`**

The terminal options include:
1. `maxCount`: the maximum number of terminal tabs to be opened simultaneously. Default: 3.
2. `theme`: specifies the themes used to style XTerm. It takes 2 callbacks for light and dark themes. 

